# Drunkenness Classification from Face Images Using Convolutional Neural Networks: An Approach Based on Alcohol-Induced Physiological Responses
by *Washington Rodrigo Dias da Silva and Siovani Cintra Felipussi*

This is a repository for the implementations described in the paper "Drunkenness Classification from Face Images Using Convolutional Neural Networks: An Approach Based on Alcohol-Induced Physiological Responses", which has been submitted for publication in *ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology*.

For those who wish to replicate the aforementioned paper results, we advise you to request the sober-drunk database to its creators at: http://old.physics.upatras.gr/sober/

## Abstract

Due to population growth and an increasing motorized vehicle fleet worldwide, road safety is still a global challenge that persists despite the awareness campaigns and the legal enforcement instruments. Most of the road safety risk factors are completely preventable and in this sense, the drunk-driving needs a special attention since a few doses of alcohol can be enough to impair motor and sensory functions required for safe driving. Hence, an individual in such condition may represent a road safety risk even presenting a blood alcohol concentration within the local legal limits. Since drunk-driving is a recurrent problem, in this paper we proposed a complementary method for drunk drivers enforcement considering the physiological responses induced by alcohol as intoxication indicatives. We addressed the drunkenness classification problem by identifying facial temperature distribution behaviors related to alcohol consumption. Such features were extracted from individuals facial thermal images in both drunk and sober states by a Convolutional Neural Network, which enabled the automatic pose invariant feature extraction and the model inference interpretation. This approach allowed us to identify temperature variations between the forehead and nose regions as a drunkenness indicative and also to identify an asymmetric facial temperature distribution in inebriated individuals that was not showed by previous studies. Hence, we were able to demonstrate a relation between facial temperature distribution patterns and the alcohol metabolic cycle, evidencing the viability of using images to recognize physiological effects caused by alcohol.

## Code implementation and references

> Briefly describe the software/scripts used to produce the results of the
> paper. The following is an example:

All source code used to generate the results and figures in the paper are in
the `code` folder.
The data used in this study is provided in `data` and the sources for the
manuscript text and figures are in `manuscript`.
Results generated by the code are saved in `results`.
See the `README.md` files in each directory for a full description.

## Using the code

You can download a copy of all the files in this repository by cloning the
[git](https://git-scm.com/) repository:

    git clone https://github.com/antonia-had/paper_template.git

or [download a zip archive](https://github.com/antonia-had/paper_template/archive/master.zip).

A copy of the repository is also archived at *insert DOI here*


## Dependencies

> Depending on your project, the script might depend on several other packages
> to run. If using Python, you can use a '.yml' file specifying your dependencies.
> You can create one and place it in the repository so subsequent users take it
> and create a Python environment with all they need to replicate your results.
> This section should then describe how one can set up an environment with the
> dependencies necessary to run your code.

You'll need Python *version number* to run the code.
You can set up an environment with all dependencies using an environment manager
like [Anaconda Python distribution](https://www.anaconda.com/download/) which
provides the `conda` package manager.
Anaconda can be installed in your user directory and does not interfere with
the system Python installation.
The required dependencies are specified in the file `environment.yml`.

Run the following command in the repository folder (where `environment.yml`
is located) to create a separate environment and install all required
dependencies in it:

    conda env create

## Data
> You need to either provide or cite the data used in your analysis.
> Avoid cluttering your repository with a lot of raw data but instead archive and
> mint a DOI for your data.

Hadjimichael, A. (2020). My interesting dataset [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

## Reproducing the results

> Here you should include all information necessary to reproduce your results.
> Ideally, you'd set up a makefile that automates as much as possible, but make
> sure to provide clear step-by-step instructions for everything.
> The following can be used as example of replicating Python code.

Activate the conda environment:

    source activate ENVIRONMENT_NAME

or, on Windows:

    activate ENVIRONMENT_NAME

To build and test the software, produce all results and figures, follow these steps:

> Add steps here


## License

All source code is made available under a GNU GPL 3-clause license. You can freely
use and modify the code, without warranty, so long as you provide attribution
to the authors.

The manuscript text is not open source. The authors reserve the rights to the
article content, which is currently submitted for publication in the
JOURNAL NAME.
